Sync CNV runbook HCOMultiArchGoldenImagesDisabled.md (Updated at 2025-08-20 15:21:03 +0000 UTC) (#320)
openshift/runbooks: alerts/openshift-virtualization-operator/HCOMultiArchGoldenImagesDisabled.md

# HCOMultiArchGoldenImagesDisabled

## Meaning

DataImportCron (DIC; also known as golden images) are used to create boot
images for virtual machines. The images are preloaded in the cluster, and then
they are used to create virtual machines boot disks with a specific operating
system. By default, the preloaded images are with the architecture of the
cluster node that was used to create the image.

If the `enableMultiArchBootImageImport` feature gate is enabled in the
HyperConverged custom resource (CR), then multiple preloaded images are created
for each DataImportCronTemplate (DICT), one for each architecture supported by

> the cluster, and by the original image.

Reviewer: On second thoughts, does this mean to say "one image for each architecture supported by the cluster, and another image for each architecture supported by the original image"? If so, this should be more explicit.

This allows the virtual machines to be scheduled on nodes with the same
architecture as the preloaded image.

This alert is triggered When running on a heterogeneous cluster, a cluster with

> nodes of different architectures, while the `enableMultiArchBootImageImport`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nodes of different architectures) while the `enableMultiArchBootImageImport`
```

feature gate is disabled in the HyperConverged CR.

## Impact

> When running on a heterogeneous cluster, the preloaded image may be with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running on a heterogeneous cluster, the preloaded image may use a
```

different architecture than the architecture of the node that the VM is
scheduled on.

In this case, the VM will fail to start, as the image architecture is not
compatible with the node architecture.

## Diagnosis

> HCO checks what are the workload node architectures in the cluster. By default,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HCO checks the workload node architectures in the cluster. By default,
```

HCO considers the worker nodes as the workload nodes. If the
`spec.workloads.nodePlacement` field in the HyperConverged CR is populated,

> then the HCO considers the nodes that match the node selector in this field as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HCO considers the nodes that match the node selector in this field as
```

the workload nodes.

HCO publishes the list of the workload node architectures in the
`status.nodeInfo.workloadsArchitectures` field in the HyperConverged CR.

Read the HyperConverged CR:

<!--DS:
```bash
oc get hyperconverged -n openshift-cnv kubevirt-hyperconverged -o yaml
```

> -->

Reviewer: Does this mean that the upstream version does not have any command here? If so, perhaps one should be added.

The result will look similar to this:

```yaml
apiVersion: hco.kubevirt.io/v1beta1
kind: HyperConverged
spec:
  ...
  workloads: # check if the spec.workloads.nodePlacement field is populated
    nodePlacement:
  ...
status:
  ...
  nodeInfo:
    workloadsArchitectures:
      - amd64
      - arm64
...
```

## Mitigation

> To address this issue, you can either enable the multi arch boot image feature,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this issue, you can either enable the multi-arch boot image feature,
```

or modify the workloads node placement in the HyperConverged CR to include only
nodes with a single architecture.

### Enable the multi arch boot image feature

> The multi arch boot image feature is in alpha stage, and it is not enabled by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The multi-arch boot image feature is in the alpha stage, and it is not enabled by
```

> default. Enabling this feature will cause the creation of multiple preloaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default. Enabling this feature will result in the creation of multiple preloaded
```

images for each DataImportCronTemplate (DICT), one for each architecture

> supported by the cluster, and by the original image. However, this feature is

Reviewer: The phrasing should be a bit clearer on how many images it actually talks about (see a previous comment).

not generally available, and it is not fully supported.

> To enable the multi arch boot image feature, set the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the multi-arch boot image feature, set the
```

`enableMultiArchBootImageImport` feature gate in the HyperConverged CR to `true`

If the HyperConverged CR contains the `spec.dataImportCronTemplates` field,
and this field is not empty, then you may need to add the
`ssp.kubevirt.io/dict.architectures` annotation to each DICT object in this
field. See
the
[HCOGoldenImageWithNoArchitectureAnnotation](HCOGoldenImageWithNoArchitectureAnnotation.md)
runbook for more details.

> 

Reviewer: Isn't the end missing the "traditional"

```suggestion
If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
[Customer Portal](https://access.redhat.com) and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.
```
...?

Edit the HyperConverged CR:
<!--DS:
```bash
oc edit hyperconverged -n openshift-cnv kubevirt-hyperconverged -o yaml
```

> -->

Reviewer: Again, this looks like there is information for downstream, without any alternatives for downstream.
